---
layout: post
title: Flourish
category: reading
tags: [reading]
---

Flourish - A visionary new understanding of happiness and well-being   
by Martin E.P.Seligman   

# part I: A new positive psychology   
## chapter1, what is well-being  
-- The Birth of a new theory   
   Thales thought that everything was water   
   Aristotle thought that all human action was to achieve happiness   
   Nietzsche thought that all human action was to get power   
   Freud thought that all human action was to avoid anxiety    
   
-- The original theory: authentic happiness  
   positice psychology is about happiness in three guises - positive emotions, engagement, and meaning
   
-- from authentic happiness theory to well-being theory     
-- well-being theory   
   In jargon, "defines exhaustively" is called "operationalizes"  
-- the elements of well-being, PERMA :   
+ Positive emotion   
+ Engagement   
+ positve Relationship   
+ Meaning - belonging to and serving something that you believe is bigger than the self.   
+ Accomplishment/Achievement   
   
   Chariots of Fire , "God make me fast, and when I run, I feel His pleasure"  
   
   - kindness exercises   
   - summary of well-being theory  
-- flourishing as the goal of positive psychology   
   core features:  
+ positice emotions , taking all things together, how happy would you say you are 
+ engagement, interest, I love leaning new things 
+ meaning, purpose, I generally feel that what I do in my life is valuable and worthwhile   
   additional features  
+ self-esteem    
+ optimism    
+ resilience 适应力；弹性, when things go wrong in my life, it generally not takes me long to get back to normal 
+ vitality 活力；生命力  
+ self-determination   
+ positive relationships, there are people in my life who really care about me  
   
## chapter2, Creating your happiness: Positive Psychology Exercises that work  
-- The gratitude visit   
   express your gratitude in a thoughtful, pueposeful manner  
-- Can well-being be changed?      
   Is well-being like your waistline - just a temporary boost followed by relapse to your usual curmudgeonliness?  
-- what-went-well exercise, aka "Three Blessings"  
   write down 3 things that went well today and why they went well.  
   next to each positive event, answer the question: why did this happen?    
-- positive psychology interventions and cases   
   http://www.authentichappiness.org   
   
-- signature strengths exercies  
   identify your signature strength, and find a way to practice it   
-- positive psychotherapy     

## chapter3, the dirty little secret of drugs and therapy  
-- Cure versus Symptom Relief   
   cosmetic drugs and curative drugs   
-- The 65 percent Barrier    
   every single drug has the exact same property: once you stop taking it, you are back to square one, and recurrence and relapse are the rule  
-- Active, Constructive Responding   
   There are four basic ways of responding, only one of which build relationships:  
   Assignment: listen carefully each time someone youc are about tells you about something good that happened to them.  
   go out of your way to act actively and constructively, ask the person to relive the event with you; the more time he/she spends reliving, the better.   
   laconic is bad: 简洁的；言简意赅的   
   remind yourself if you realize you're in passive/constructive; passive/destructive; actice/destructive    
-- Dealing with negative emotions   
   Abraham Lincoln, Winston Churchill, two severe depressives.   
   Look, the truth is that many days, you will wake up feeling blue and thinking life is hopeless.   
   Your job is not only to fight these feelings but also to live heroically: functioning well even when you are very sad.   
-- A new approach to cure   
   
-- Applied psychology versus basic psychology   
-- problems versus puzzles   
-- Wittgenstein, Popper, and Penn  
   Philosophy was a mind-bending game, but psychology was not a game, and it could, I fervently hoped, actually help humanity.  
   career advice ever vouchsafed me  
   he did it so adroitly.  
   research on work, love and play, that's what life is about.  
   
   
## chapter4, teaching well-being: the magic of  MAPP   

-- "Crossroads", Derrick Carpenter  
"
I came upon a crossroads,  
where I sought only shelter for a brief time,  
But as I lat down my sack and kicked off my shoes,  
I noticed that this crossroads was like no other I had found.  

The air in this place held an inviting warmth,  
and a vibrancy(生气勃勃；鲜艳；振动) permeated all things.  
As I introduced myself to the travelers here,  
I felt no hesitation or discouragement,  
But sincerity and optimism in their place.  
In their eyes I saw something I could not name,  
but that felt very much like home.  
In this place, together, we shared and encouraged  
and rejoiced in the abundance of life...  
"  

Teach the skills of well-being: how to have more positive emotion, more meaning, better relationships, and more positive accomplishment.  
MAPP - The Master of Applied Positive Psychology  
1) the content is challenging, informative, and uplifting  
2) positive psychology is personally and professionally transforming  
3) positive psychology is a calling  

-- The First MAPP    
-- Ingredients of Applied Positive Psychology    
   . intellectually challenging Applicable Content   
     Positive emotion does much more than just feel pleasant, it is a neon sign that growth is under way, that psychological capital is accumulating.  
	 life is a ship with sails and rudder.    
     she rebuked me  
     If I can stop whining, you can stop being such as grouch.   
     you spend a lot of time in a funk. Learning about positive psuchology , in contrast, is fun - not just the usual joy of learning, but the joy of learning about material that is joyful.  
	 qantas: 澳洲航空,澳大利亚航空公司   
	 
   . Personal and Professional Transformation   
     there are now over 50,000 professionals in America making their living as coaches.   
	 you will be, by my lights, bona fide disseminators of positive psychology.    
	 
-- Transformations   
   The merciless criticism of others is what goads us into change.   
   serenade love into my life   
      
-- called to positive psychology   
   vocation - being called to act rather than choosing to act - is an old word, but it is a real thing.   
   Positive psychology called to me just as the burning bush called to Moses   
   Socialogists distinguish among a job, a career, and a calling.  
   you do a job for the money, and when the money stops, you stop working.   
   you pursue a career for the promotions, and when the promotions stop, topped out, you quit or become a time-serving husk.   
   A calling, in contrast, is done for its own sake. you would do it anyway, with no pay and no promotions.   
   "Try to stop me" is what your heart cries when you are thwarted.   
   - Movies that convey positive psychology better than lectures full of words:   
     Groundhog Day, I'm stunned by how much it presses us, yearning, toward positive personal transformation  
	 the Devil wears prada, a movie about integrity- that of Meryl Streep, the boss from hell.  
	 The Shawshank Redemption   
	 Chariots of Fire 二轮战车 , 火之战车  
	 Sunday in the park with George, the transendent last scene of the first act in which art, children, Paris, and what abides and what is ephemeral in life are suffused.  
	 Field of Dreams, based on Shoeless Joe.   
	 Close Encounters.   
   
## chapter5, Positive Education: teaching well-being to young people  
-- should well-being be taught in school  
   Positive mood produces broader attention, more creative thinking, and more holistic thinking.  
   negative mood produces narrowed attention, more critical thinking, and more analytic thinking.  
   yes, The positive psychology program improve social skills (empathy, cooperation, assertiveness, self-control).  
   - The Penn Resiliency Program: A way to teach  
     resilience, in one aspect of positive psychology - the emotional aspect.  
	 we designed a more comprehensive curriculum that builds character strengths, relationships, and meaning, as well as raise positive emotions and reduces negative emotions.  
     + identify your signature strength  
     + increase their use of these strengths in their daily lives  
     + 20 8-minutes sessions  
       a weekly in-class activity, real-world homework in which students apply these skills in their lives, and journal reflections  
   
   - Well-being in school 
     . three-good-things exercises   
	    why did this good thing happen?   
        what does this mean to you?   
        how can you have more of this good thing in the future   

	 . using signature strength in new ways  
	    Honesty, Loyalty, Perseverance, Creativity, Kindness, wisdom, Courage, Fairness, these and 16 other character strengths are valued in every culture in the world. students take the values in www.authentichappiness.org and use their highest strength in a new way at school in the next week. several sessions focus on identifying character strengths in themselves, their friends, and the literacy figures they read about, 
and using those strengths to overcome challenges.   	 

-- the geelong grammer school project      
     . Teaching positive education  
	 ABC model: how beliefs(B) about an adversity(A) - and not the adversity itself - cause the consequent(C) feelings.  
	 This is a point of major insight for students: emotions don't follow inexorably from external events but from what you think about those events, and you can actually change what you think.  
	 . Embedding positive education   
	 
	 . Living positive education  
-- positive computing   
   PFA - Personal Flourishing Assistant   
   www.avantgames.com,   games that build positives in life   
   goals.com, people record their goals and their progress toward their goals   
   
-- a new measure of prosperity   


# part II: The ways to flourish   
## chapter6, GRIT, character, and achievement, A new theory of intelligence   
-- Success and Intelligence   
-- Positive Character   
   - Drawn by the future, not driven by the past   
-- what intelligence is   
1. speed   
2. the virtue of slowness   
   Transcendental Meditation,  practice TM 40 minutes for 20 years.   
   - Executive function   
   - Rate of learning: the first derivative of speed   
   Speed : the faster, the mote material on automatic, the more one knows about the task   
   slowness: the voluntary, heavy weight processes of achievement, such as planning, refining, checking for errors, and creativity.   
     The faster the speed, the more the knowledge, and thus the more time left over for these executive functions to be used.   
   rate of learning: how fast new information can be deposited into the back account of automatic knowledge, allowing even more time for the slow executive processes.   
3. self-control and GRIT    
   how to increase self-control and GRIT?   
4. GRIT versus self-discipline    
   If you want to maximize the achivement of children, we need to promote self-discipline   
   There is, howeverm an extreme trait of self-discipline: GRIT   
   -High Human Accomplishment   
# GRIT test  
33/8 = 4.1, , mean/sd = 3.43/0.68  
   The more eduction, the more GRIT  
5. GRIT's benefits  
-- Building the elements of success  
   achievement = skill X effort  
   1. fast  
   2. slow : building slowness allows space for executive function - planning, remembering, inihibiting impulses, and creativity - to grow  
   3. rate of learning: the faster your rate of learning, the more knowledge you can accumulate for each unit of time that you work on the task.  
    
## chapter7, Army Strong: comprehensive soldier fitness  

## chapter8, turning trauma into growth   
-- Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder  
-- Post-Traumatic Growth  
-- Post-Traumatic Growth Course  
   Post-Traumatic Growth Inventory  
-- Master Resiliency Training  
   Building Mental Toughness - ABCDE   
      C(emotional consequences) do not stem from A(Adversity), but from B(your belief about adversity)  
   The Hot Seat: Fighting Catastrophic Thoughts    
   In Real Time   
   Hunt the Good Stuff   
   Character Strengths   
   Building Strong Relationships - responds actively & constructively   
     effective praise, assertive communication   
	 critical thinking   
-- The Rollout   

## chapter9, positive physical health: the biology of optimism  
  
## chapter10, the politics and economics of well-being  

  
the panoply of suffering that makes up psychology-as-usual primary material- can be a vexation to the soul   
panoply- 壮丽的陈列；全副盔甲；盛装；防护物  
vexation -  烦恼；令人生气的事或者引起烦恼之事   
I have been part of tectonic upheaval in psychology called positive psychology.   
tectonic -  筑造的；建筑的；构造的  
upheaval - 向上的运动；剧变；动乱   
drill sergeant: 操练军士  
Glimpsing the vision of a flourishing human future is life changing   
glimplse: 一瞥；一闪；略微；隐约感觉   
retronym:  当某事物的原名不再适用的时候为它造的新词；如"第一次世界大战(World War I)"；其在二战之前叫做"大战"(the Great War)   
missive:  公文；书信  
Snail mail and smail (from snail + mail) — named after the snail with its slow speed — is a retronym that refers to letters and missives carried by conventional postal delivery services.  
My replies are just the length that fits the time it takes for my partner to play the hand when I am the dummy.   
provost:  〈英〉大学中某些学院的院长（称号）；教区长；（某些苏格兰城市的）市长；〈美〉（某些大学的）教务长  
the offbeat idea adj. 不平常的；离奇的；反传统的; n. 弱拍  

- this book is the story of what this beginning wrought.  wrought: 锤炼的；制成的；精心制作的；装饰的；激动的  
all of the giants made the grand mistake of monism.  monism:   [哲]一元论  
they pass with flying colors the test of "parsimony" .  过度节俭；吝啬；简约性   
The philosophical dictum that the simples answer is the right answer. 格言；名言；[律]法官的附带意见  
summa  总结；总结性论文   
poster : 海报   
poster child : 代表  
she is a poster child of positive psychology   
skirmish:  前哨战；小争斗；小冲突 I have been able to win many skirmishes with editors, but never over titles.   
saddle:  装以马鞍；使负担;  The title saddled me with that awful smiley face whenever positive psychology made the news.   
hedonics: 享乐(主义)说；享乐(主义)论;  "Happiness" historically is not closely tied to such hedonics -- feeling cheerful or merry is a far cry from what   
  Thomas Jefferson declared that we have the right to pursue.   

- The pursuit of engagement and the pursuit of pleasure are often solitary, solipsistic endeavors.   
solitary: 孤独的；独立的；单个的；唯一的；荒凉的  
solipsistic:  唯我论的  
Human beings, ineluctably, want meaning and purpose in life :  难免的；不能逃避的   
  
- connotation of "happiness"   涵义；言外之意；[逻]内涵  
critics cogently contend that ....   痛切地；中肯地  
drag in the desiderata of engagement  <拉>急需品  

- it is essentailly  theory of uncoerced choice.   
  uncoerced:  not brought about by coercion or force;  
  coercion:  强迫；威压；高压政治   
  It might be subsumed into positive emotion。   归入；纳入；包含；包括   
  dispositive and positive emotion. (事件、行为等)决定性的；处置的   
  it was only adolescent gibberish: 莫名其妙的话；胡言乱语   
  Abraham Lincoln, a profound melancholic:  adj. 忧郁的；忧郁症的；忧伤的; n. 忧沉症患者  
  play backgammon  西洋双陆棋戏；十五子棋  
  they often pursue pleasure avidly(热望地；渴求地) and they feel positive emotion(however evanescent) 迅速消失的；短暂的  
  a heretical article  异教的；异端的  
  we pooh-poohed it as soft-headed(愚笨的) 表示轻蔑或不耐烦  
  my snide comment   嘲笑的；卑鄙的；恶意的；假冒的  
  you are looking piqued, why don't you go out and help someone?   生气；愤怒  
  empirically, Ma Post's maxim has been put to rigorous test  经验主义的；以观察或实验为根据的  
  
- I stood in an enormous, meandering line for 45 minutes to ...   缓慢而弯曲地流动；漫步；闲聊  
  the line moved glacially 冰川(期)的；非常冷的；缓慢的；(人)态度不友善的  
  humans dominate the vertebrate world. 脊椎的；脊椎动物的  
  the hive emotions 蜂房；蜂箱；蜂群；喧闹繁忙的场所  
  a card-carrying economist: 正式的；持有正式成员证的   
  caricature 讽刺画；讽刺；歪曲；笨拙的模仿  
    
- Contrary to their insouciant optimism  漫不经心的；漠不关心的  
  one that bilks Americans out of $50 billion annually  赖账；蒙骗；避开；使挫败  
  just a temporary boost followed by relapse to your usual curmudgeonliness   
    relapse 复发；再陷入；故态复萌;  
	curmudgeon:   脾气暴躁的人；乖戾的老人   
  The hope that better externalities could make people lastingly happier was discouraged by a study of lottery winners.  外部经济效果  
  who were happier for a few months after their windfall but soon fell back to their habitual level of grounchiness or cheerfulness  
  windfall:  风吹落的果实；意外的收获；侥幸所得  
  grouchy: 不高兴的;爱抱怨的   
  placebo: 安慰剂；安慰话  
  rapport: 关系；亲善；一致  
    
-- a belated application  迟来的  
   intercession 求情；调解；仲裁  
   had always been a maverick  未打烙印的小牛；持不同意见者  
  
-- five-minutes melee, 互殴；混战   
   bloody brutes(畜生；残忍的人), fiends( 魔鬼；邪神)  
   anarchists 无政府主义者  
   riding on the coattails(男上衣后摆) of this protest was a very big idea  
   a small tenement room 房屋；住户；租户  
   theologians 神学专家   
   character or heredity 遗传；遗传特征  
   pathology and tragedy  病理学  
     
-- We're vouchsafed a safe haven.   赐予；惠予  
   my own inadequacies in dealing in loco parentis(代人尽父母责任) twenty-four hours a day with adolescents.  
   They become more anxious and avoidant  [医]回避反应的  
   Who is this clunker you imposed on us?  年久失修的旧机器；失败  
   a modicum of self-discipline 少量；一点点；一小份  
   a tautology  无谓的重复；重言；累赘  
   Charles Murray, the eminent sociologist, in his magnum opus( <拉> (文学； 艺术之)杰作； (艺术家的)代表作), Human Accomplishment,  
   transistor  晶体管；晶体管收音机  
   the additional time practicing accounted for the entire edge GRIT confers  商讨；授予，赐予  
   effort is very malleable  可塑的；易改变的；有延展性  
   
-- the tail wagging the dog:  used to describe a situation in which an important or powerful person, organization, etc., is being controlled by someone or something that is much less important or powerful  
   PTSD is malingering:   装病；开小差   
   curmudgeon voice:  脾气暴躁的人；乖戾的老人   
   she began gently to demur: 提出异议；反对；<古>拖延  
   in medieval monasteries( 修道院；寺院), the post of abbot(男修道院院长) bridged the worlds of the secular and sacred   
   real political scrum:  疯狂的马；多而乱的一群人；(橄榄球赛中)双方球员争球  
   merit lords, not hereditary lords: 世袭的；遗传的  
   endemic: 风土的；地方的   
   mellifluous: 如蜜般的；流畅的；甜美的  
   simulcast the training to forts: 同时播放  
   plenary session:  充分的；完全的；全体出席的  
   nefarious: 违法的；邪恶的    
   
-- entire school can be imbued with positive psychology? 灌输；使感染；使充满   
   I have this uncanny（神秘的；不可思议的） feeling that we are going to spend our sabbatical（休假；公休） here.   
   a mellifluous（流畅的；甜美的） speaker with a voice as much of a basso（低音；低音歌手） as mine.   
   Chapel is another locus（场所；所在地） of positive education   
   unfathomably:  深不可测地(深奥的)  
   rich alums: 女校友；女毕业生  
   rickety: 连接处不牢固导致）摇晃的；患软骨病的  
   palatial:  宫殿般的；宏伟的  
   spiffily dressed:  出色的；显眼耀目的；蛮俐落的  
   delinquency: （少年）犯罪；失职  
   carte blanche: 全权委托, 署名空白纸(任人填写条件等)  
   plenary sessions: 充分的；完全的；全体出席的  
   a vicar's son:  (教区或教堂)牧师；代理人  
   paragons of each of the strengths:  模范；典型   
   pastoral counseling: 田园的；宁静的；牧人的；牧师的  
   I slogged through it again recently:  艰难行进；猛击；苦干；决出胜负   
   malaria: 疟疾  
   
-- why run-of-the-mill(不出众的；普通的) teaching so often fails  
   a vivacious matehmatics graduate   
   when a child feels joy in rough-and-tumble play.   
   
   
   
   











